Architecture is defined as: In reference to computers, software or networks, the overall design of a computing system and the logical and physical interrelationships between its components.
Java Architecture is a collection of components, i.e., JVM, JRE, and JDK. It integrates the process of interpretation and compilation. It defines all the processes involved in creating a Java program. Java Architecture explains each and every step of how a program is compiled and executed.

We write source code which is saved with .java extension(Human readable format).

Java compiler converts it into byte code with extension .class also known as intermediate code , this  code requires JVM to run, that's why java is platform independent.

Java is platform independent:
It means that byte code can run on all machines
After compiling C/C++ file we get executable file which are platform dependent.
In java after compling we get byte code , JVM converts this to machine code 
Java is platform independent but JVM is platform dependent

Java architecture consist of JDK , JRE , JVM ,JIT

JDK(Java development kit)
Provides environment to develop and run java program
It is a package that includes
    1. Development tools
    2. JRE- to execute the program
    3. compiler - javac
    4. archiver - jar
    5. docs generator - javadoc
    6. interpreter/loader


JRE(Java runtime environment)
It is an installation package that provide environment to only run the program  
It consist of 
    1.Deployment technologies
    2.User interface toolkits 
    3.Base libraries
    4. JVM

After we get the .class file ,the next thing happen at runtime

How JVM works?

1. Loading
    reads .class file and generate it into binary data
    an object of this class is created in heap

2. Linking
    JVM verifies the .class file
    allocates memory for class variables and defalut values

3. Initialization
    all static variables are assigned with their values defined in the code and static block

JVM contains stack and heap memory alocation

JVM provides runtime environment to java program, its work to load, verify and execute byte code file. It has three component : class loader , memory area , execution engine

Memory Area consist of four components
    1. Class
    2. Heap
    3. Stack
    4. PC registers

Execution engine consist of four components
    1. JIT(just in time compiler)
    2. Garbage collector

